blogpost: Pod Failure Policy for Jobs Goes GA (#46896)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-08-19-pod-failure-policy-for-jobs-goes-ga.md

costs in the following ways:

- Gives you control to fail the Job as soon as a non-retriable Pod failure occurs.
- Allows you to ignore retriable errors without increasing the `backoffLimit` field.

For example, you can use a Pod failure policy to run your workload on more affordable spot machines
by ignoring Pod failures caused by
[graceful node shutdown](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/node-shutdown/#graceful-node-shutdown).

The policy allows you to distinguish between retriable and non-retriable Pod
failures based on container exit codes or Pod conditions in a failed Pod.

## How it works

You specify a Pod failure policy in the Job specification, represented as a list
of rules.

For each rule you define _match requirements_ based on one of the following properties:

- Container exit codes: the `onExitCodes` property.
- Pod conditions: the `onPodConditions` property.

Additionally, for each rule, you specify one of the following actions to take
when a Pod matches the rule:
- `Ignore`: Do not count the failure towards the `backoffLimit` or `backoffLimitPerIndex`.
- `FailJob`: Fail the entire Job and terminate all running Pods.

> - `FailIndex`: Fail the index corresponding to the failed Pod
>   [Backoff limit per index](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FailIndex`: Fail the index corresponding to the failed Pod.
  This action is used together with the [Backoff limit per index](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index) feature.
```

Or something in that regard?

When Pod failures occur in a running Job, Kubernetes matches the
failed Pod status against the list of Pod failure policy rules, in the specified
order, and takes the corresponding actions for the first matched rule.

### Kubernetes-initiated Pod disruptions

To allow matching Pod failure policy rules against failures caused by
disruptions initiated by Kubernetes, this feature introduces the `DisruptionTarget`
Pod condition.

This condition is added by Kubernetes when a Pod fails because of a retriable
[disruption scenario](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-conditions).
The `DisruptionTarget` condition contains one of the following reasons that corresponds to
these disruption scenarios:

- `PreemptionByKubeScheduler`: [Preemption](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption)
   by `kube-scheduler` to accommodate a new Pod that has a higher priority.
- `DeletionByTaintManager` - the Pod is due to be deleted by
   `kube-controller-manager` due to a `NoExecute` [taint](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
   that the Pod doesn't tolerate.
- `EvictionByEvictionAPI` - the Pod has been marked for

>    [eviction using the Kubernetes API](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/api-eviction/).

Reviewer: Not sure if I would say marked for eviction. Maybe something like the pod was terminated after a successful eviction.

Author: `DisruptionTarget` is added prior to actual eviction, and so on some rare occasions (like API server crash), the Pod may get the condition, but the actual eviction does not happen. To reflect the possibility of such scenarios we add the `Target` to the condition name, or use a tentative language like "marked for eviction". 

I admit the description may not be perfect (and some rephrasing might be helpful), but indicating as if the eviction already happened (using "was") might be misleading. wdyt?

Reviewer: It all happens during a single evict request, so I am not sure there is too much difference from user's perspective.

Also if an API server crashes in the middle of the processing, then there is no guarantee the eviction will continue. It needs to be initiated again by another actor. That is why `marked for eviction` seems a bit confusing to me.

Author: Yes, it happens within a single request, but what I was told by APi folks, IIUC there is no guarantee on atomicity of adding the condition, and actual deletion. cc @liggitt to keep me honest here.

So, in that case the actual eviction may not actually happen. For this reason we introduce a mechanism to clean stale DisruptionTarget conditions. For this reason we introduce the cleaner of stale conditions which removes them after 2min (see [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/3329-retriable-and-non-retriable-failures#stale-disruptiontarget-condition-which-is-not-cleaned-up)). Unfortunately this is not in user-facing docs currently, and I don't think it will make into this release cycle. I can add a note in the blog post about it. OTOH this is very much going into the weeds / details. WDYT?

Reviewer: I did not mean to dive into the logic here or in the blog. I was just wondering if we can come up with a better sentence, but I can live with the current version as well :)

Reviewer: what about `the Pod is to be terminated due to an API-initiated eviction`?

Author: I see, still for curiosity, and to refresh my memory, I did a bit of code search on my own and indeed it seems like two calls `Update` and `Delete` (see [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/dbc2b0a5c7acc349ea71a14e49913661eaf708d2/pkg/registry/core/pod/storage/eviction.go#L307-L362)), so I believe there is no atomicity.

As for the wording, the suggested is ok, but I updated to "the Pod is due to be deleted by an [API-initiated eviction]" to also align with the wording for other scenarios. PTAL.

   be deleted by [Pod garbage collection](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-garbage-collection).
- `TerminationByKubelet` - the Pod was terminated by
  [graceful node shutdown](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/node-shutdown/#graceful-node-shutdown),
  [node pressure eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/)
  or preemption for [system critical pods](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/guaranteed-scheduling-critical-addon-pods/).

### Example

The Pod failure policy snippet below demonstrates an example use:

```yaml
podFailurePolicy:
  rules:
  - action: Ignore
    onPodConditions:
    - type: DisruptionTarget
  - action: FailJob
    onPodConditions:
    - type: ConfigIssue
  - action: FailJob
    onExitCodes:
      operator: In
      values: [ 42 ]
```

This example, the Pod failure policy does the following:

- Ignores any failed Pods that have the built-in `DisruptionTarget`
  condition. These Pods don't count towards Job backoff limits.
- Fails the Job if any failed Pods have the custom user-supplied
  `ConfigIssue` condition, which was added either by a custom controller or webhook.

> - Fails the Job if any containers exited with the reserved exit code 42

Reviewer: nit: I am not sure if `reserved` is the correct use here. It almost seems like the process should reserve the use of the exit code.

Author: Yes, fully agree. Dropped the word.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Pod failure policy for Jobs goes GA"
date: 2024-08-19
slug: kubernetes-1-31-pod-failure-policy-for-jobs-goes-ga
author: >

>   Michał Woźniak (Google)
>   Shannon Kularathna (Google)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Michał Woźniak (Google), Shannon Kularathna (Google)
```

Author: From what I saw in all other blogs authors are listed per line in code: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/content/en/blog/_posts/2024-04-26-structured-authz-beta.md?plain=1#L6-L11, but adding a GH handle might be nice. I will do that.

Author: done

these disruption scenarios:

- `PreemptionByKubeScheduler`: [Preemption](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption)
   by `kube-scheduler` to accommodate a new Pod that has a higher priority.
- `DeletionByTaintManager` - the Pod is due to be deleted by
   `kube-controller-manager` due to a `NoExecute` [taint](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
   that the Pod doesn't tolerate.
- `EvictionByEvictionAPI` - the Pod is due to be deleted by an
   [API-initiated eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/api-eviction/).
- `DeletionByPodGC` - the Pod is bound to a node that no longer exists, and is due to
   be deleted by [Pod garbage collection](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-garbage-collection).
- `TerminationByKubelet` - the Pod was terminated by
  [graceful node shutdown](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/node-shutdown/#graceful-node-shutdown),
  [node pressure eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/)
  or preemption for [system critical pods](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/guaranteed-scheduling-critical-addon-pods/).

> Note that while the `DisruptionTarget` condition can be leveraged by the Pod

Author: FYI: added this without an explicit ask, but I find it might be useful to know by users, and not immediately obvious. cc @atiratree @shannonxtreme

Author: sgtm, updated following the suggested edit.

failure policy, it is added by Kubernetes in the scenarios mentioned above,
regardless of whether the Pods are owned by Jobs.

### Example

The Pod failure policy snippet below demonstrates an example use:

```yaml
podFailurePolicy:
  rules:
  - action: Ignore
    onPodConditions:
    - type: DisruptionTarget
  - action: FailJob
    onPodConditions:
    - type: ConfigIssue
  - action: FailJob
    onExitCodes:
      operator: In
      values: [ 42 ]
```

> This example, the Pod failure policy does the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the Pod failure policy does the following:
```

Author: done

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Pod failure policy for Jobs goes GA"

Author: Thanks, done

- `Ignore`: Do not count the failure towards the `backoffLimit` or `backoffLimitPerIndex`.
- `FailJob`: Fail the entire Job and terminate all running Pods.
- `FailIndex`: Fail the index corresponding to the failed Pod.
  This action works with the [Backoff limit per index](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index) feature.
- `Count`: Count the failure towards the `backoffLimit` or `backoffLimitPerIndex`.
  This is the default behavior.

When Pod failures occur in a running Job, Kubernetes matches the
failed Pod status against the list of Pod failure policy rules, in the specified
order, and takes the corresponding actions for the first matched rule.

Note that when specifying the Pod failure policy, you must also set the Job's
Pod template with `restartPolicy: Never`. This prevents race conditions between
the kubelet and the Job controller when counting Pod failures.

### Kubernetes-initiated Pod disruptions

To allow matching Pod failure policy rules against failures caused by
disruptions initiated by Kubernetes, this feature introduces the `DisruptionTarget`
Pod condition.

Kubernetes adds this condition to any Pod, regardless of whether it's managed by

> a Job controller, that fails because of a retriable

Author: Thank you for reviewing and the remark.

However, I would propose slightly different phrasing, because the sentence before the list of conditions feels a bit out of context, and the previous sentence already says "retrieable".

So, I tentatively pushed commit with the following note:
```
Importantly, other disruption scenarios, like eviction due to exceeding
[Pod container limits](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/),
do not receive the `DisruptionTarget` condition because they are likely caused
by the Pod itself and would reoccur on retry.
```
WDYT @smarterclayton  @shannonxtreme ?

> a Job controller, that fails because of a retriable

Reviewer 2: You don't need to say "Importantly", but also, this is something that should be in the doc (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-conditions) but isn't.

> a Job controller, that fails because of a retriable

Author: I have opened the website PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/47378, but given that we passed Docs Freeze since 30th July we probably will only be able to merge in the next release cycle.

corresponds to these disruption scenarios:

- `PreemptionByKubeScheduler`: [Preemption](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption)
   by `kube-scheduler` to accommodate a new Pod that has a higher priority.
- `DeletionByTaintManager` - the Pod is due to be deleted by
   `kube-controller-manager` due to a `NoExecute` [taint](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
   that the Pod doesn't tolerate.
- `EvictionByEvictionAPI` - the Pod is due to be deleted by an
   [API-initiated eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/api-eviction/).
- `DeletionByPodGC` - the Pod is bound to a node that no longer exists, and is due to
   be deleted by [Pod garbage collection](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-garbage-collection).
- `TerminationByKubelet` - the Pod was terminated by
  [graceful node shutdown](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/node-shutdown/#graceful-node-shutdown),
  [node pressure eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/)
  or preemption for [system critical pods](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/guaranteed-scheduling-critical-addon-pods/).

> Importantly, other disruption scenarios, like eviction due to exceeding
> [Pod container limits](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/),
> do not receive the `DisruptionTarget` condition because they are likely caused
> by the Pod itself and would reoccur on retry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In all other disruption scenarios, like eviction due to exceeding
[Pod container limits](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/),
Pods don't receive the `DisruptionTarget` condition because the disruptions were
probably caused by the Pod and would reoccur on retry.
```

when a Pod matches the rule:
- `Ignore`: Do not count the failure towards the `backoffLimit` or `backoffLimitPerIndex`.
- `FailJob`: Fail the entire Job and terminate all running Pods.
- `FailIndex`: Fail the index corresponding to the failed Pod.

>   This action is used together with the [Backoff limit per index](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index) feature.

Reviewer 2: s/is used together/works with

Author: Done

- `Count`: Count the failure towards the `backoffLimit` or `backoffLimitPerIndex`.
  This is the default behavior.

When Pod failures occur in a running Job, Kubernetes matches the
failed Pod status against the list of Pod failure policy rules, in the specified
order, and takes the corresponding actions for the first matched rule.

Note that when specifying the Pod failure policy, you must also set the Job's
Pod template with `restartPolicy: Never`. This is important to prevent race

> conditions between the Kubelet and Job controller when counting Pod failures.

Author: Actually, it is mentioned in this sentence: "if you want to use a .spec.podFailurePolicy field for a Job, you must also define that Job's pod template with .spec.restartPolicy set to Never.", but maybe this is not exposed enough. We could add, and it does not mention the reason. I could open a PR that adds an extra note based on the sentence from the blog. Wdyt?
